# CS330

**How do I approach designing software?**
My work with C++ and OpenGL on this 3D modeling project has pushed me to develop my design skills in a fast paced manner. Despite simply selecting a scene and recreating it, I was forced to research design techniques while creating complex shapes using only basic shapes. The design process I followed during the development of this project was to create a bland scene holding all of the essentials, and then polishing the scene once the structure was there. For example, I began with a simple box for the house, a sphere for the island, and a tilted box for the roof. Once these were implemented, I added in details like windows, water, and other textures. I believe this method of design is beneficial for my own thought process, as it prevents me from feeling overwhelmed and gives me a sense of confidence I need to tackle the tougher aspects of the design.

**How do I approach developing programs?**
While working on this 3D scene, my development approach revolved around constant testing of the code. I have realized that in depth code can be very hard to troubleshoot, so I approached this project with testing code after every small change. In a 3D scene, one mistake in the placement of an object can ruin a chain of placement if object's positions are reliant on each other. Iteration was key in this project, as previously mentioned, starting with the structure of the scene and refining as time went on. We began with simple shapes, combining simple shapes to create complex ones, texturing, lighting, and then a final refinement. My development during this project improved greatly due to the struggles I had. The toughest struggle I had was in getting the lighting in the scene to work. I solved this through lots of cross referencing with the fragment shader and realizing what parameters I was not meeting correctly.

**How can computer science help me in reaching my goals?**
Computational graphics and visualization has given me new found knowledge for my future educational pathway, mainly in the way of exposing me to a new kind of programming. I had not previously worked on a project that took so much testing, back peddaling, and troubleshooting. As my education goes on, this project will have a profound impact on my approach to learning new concepts and my development as a whole. As for my professional future, computational graphics and visualizations has exposed me to a new potential career path. This sort of programming is very rewarding in constantly seeing results as you code, which intrigues me for a potential career path. The troubleshooting, testing, and overall patience gained from this course will be of high value in my future to come.
